[THEME MUSIC PLAYING]
Hello, my beautiful
co-creators.
Lilou here for Gaiam TV.
Today I'm in Windsor.
I'm still in Windsor in the UK.
I can't get enough, and
today I have a house author,
Derek, hello.
Hi, Lilou.
How are you doing?
I'm very good indeed.
Thank you.
I love the British accent.
Very blessed to be here.
We are blessed to
have you, and I'm
excited to discover
your story because I
know you're an international
motivational speaker
and a coach.
And you just got this book out,
so it's brand new material.
And I'm going to
be discovering this
as you are throughout this
interview of what you do
and what got you
to write this book
OK, fine.
Yeah, happy to share.
I'll just go for it.
So what got you to start it?
What is this-- I've
heard of this 10
seconds that change your life.
Is that right?
My book's called the
"10-Second Philosophy,"
which is really
a practical guide
to releasing your inner genius.
It really starts
because I believe
that everyone has a
genius inside of them
which I call the true self.
And if you get the true
self into your life,
you'll appear like a
genius because there
is a genius inside all of us.
And it can take just seconds
to open up that genius
and then change your whole life.
Let's go into it.
Let's go into how to do that
because it's true like now
in life we don't have
much time to bring
that genius out and
have those answers
and make those decisions.
So how can we tap into
that really quickly.
Well, it started for me
going back eight years ago.
I was in my office
working late one night.
And I had been working
for about 18 years
as a financial services
financial planner,
and effectively, I
had been failing.
For the agency
that I worked for,
I was always at the
bottom of the list
struggling after 18
years in the business
just about making ends
meet, not doing very well.
And to be frank, after
18 years, I had no money.
I was broke, and I was
not quite depressed,
but I'd say I was
clinically unhappy.
So I was in the office one
night one evening at 9:30,
and this [INAUDIBLE] guy
came into the office.
And he just said to me,
Derek, time to lock up.
And I said, just give me 10 more
minutes, and he walked away,
and then he came back in.
And I said, just give
me two more minutes.
And then he just looked at me,
and he asked me a question.
And he said, Derek, what time
did you get in this morning?
I said, well, 8 o'clock.
And literally as
he walked away, I
stood then-- I had
a moment, which
is my first 10-second moment
because in those 10 seconds
I literally stopped
and went inside, really
went introspectively.
And what came out of me was,
you're not happy because you're
not who you really are.
And you can't be truly happy.
It's not you.
What also came out of me
was some revelations for me
at the time, which is I have
been setting goals for 18
years, doing the goal thing, as
you've all been taught to do,
for 18 years.
And after years, I was still
broke, and I was still unhappy.
So what came out me was
to stop setting goals,
stop setting goals, and instead
start setting standards for how
to live your life by the day.
So I did that.
And just for clarification,
a goal of course
is something that you set
up for tomorrow, next week,
next month, next year,
20 years into the future.
And what I understood for
myself and then for the people
is that we all attach some of
our happiness and contentment
to achieving of that goal.
So that happiness and
contentment stays in the future
with that goal, but most
goals are not achieved,
so people never
get the happiness
really in their lives.
A standard is different.
A standard says this is who
I'm going to be just for today.
This is who I am today.
These are the basis,
the criteria, the rules,
the levels, and the
qualities that I'm
going to live by today.
And they don't come
from outside of you,
they come from inside of you.
So for me, a quality, a level,
a rule, a basis, a criteria
is something that says, who
am I really on the inside?
Who's the person inside?
What's my true self?
And to listen to the standards,
the qualities, rules,
criterias, levels, and base
that come from that place
and commit to living up
to the standards just one
day at a time just
for today just
until you hit your head
back on your pillow tonight,
and that's it.
And I think we can all do that.
We can all be ourselves, be our
true self, just for one day.
But if you say to me do this
for the rest of your life
over a 20-year business plan
or a three-year goal, it's
difficult. I was going
to leaders and teachers
from them around the world
and have all had challenges
with goals themselves.
So what we do know is that goals
are challenging for everyone,
and most people can either
take it to another place
if they set standards, and
goals sometimes just don't work.
So I know this is different.
I know it's controversial, but
actually it's changing lives
and so did mine.
So that night--
Yeah, let's bring
it back to your life
because it really helps
us because otherwise
I just heard a lot of things.
And then it's wonderful when
we can just reflect in here
how this is, yeah, wonderful.
I mean really
simply, the place I
was in just going back
just over seven years ago
where I wasn't
seeing my children.
I was married.
I have four children.
I wasn't seeing them.
I was always working.
I wasn't seeing my wife.
It was affecting
our relationships
with my wife and my children.
I wasn't happy in the office,
unhappy with people driving all
over the country to see
people who didn't have
much money for
financial planning
and really just going
wherever they said set up.
If they asked me to go to
the north or the south,
I would go, anytime,
anyplace, anywhere.
The problem with that
was I was so desperate
and happy and
actually really just
struggling to have any success.
So after my change,
my epiphany-- that's
even if I want to call
it that-- literally,
everything changed for
me because I changed.
I set standards,
and that evening
what I did I from inside I wrote
out some new standards to how
I was going to be as a person.
Because what did you
reply to that guy.
Oh, my reply to him
was actually nothing.
But he was already walking away.
When I was in my moment, he
was already walking away.
But that phrase, that
question, just went inside.
Because to me, all of us
have moments that pass us by.
And maybe my moment
took me about 10 seconds
to have someone ask me a
question and have me go inside
and answer that
question honestly
perhaps for the first time.
And that question changed me.
So I believe that any word,
thought, question, phrase,
or idea can change us if we
stop, pause, and allow it to go
inside and work inside of us.
So an idea that, and one
of the things that came out
was around standards,
and that was
what came out of my philosophy.
It was around standards, and
I set standards in my life
around the business.
I wouldn't see any clients
below a certain wealth
because it was honoring them,
but it wasn't honoring me.
I wasn't doing
much money from it.
There's no kind
of effect of that,
so I wasn't seeing my
wife or my children.
So I set a minimum
criteria for clients
must have to be clients of mine.
I also decided no more six
days a week and no more
evening appointments.
So from a practical
point of view,
I began to reclaim my life.
And the core standard was
around my family standards.
So taking my children to
school became my new standard
every single morning.
Picking my children
up from school three,
four nights a week every single
week became another standard.
No more Fridays, no
Saturdays, half day Wednesday.
I even made a decision
around the people
I would work with as I was
advising that would have to be,
what I would call, nice people,
people I felt a connection
with, because I wasn't
going to be in a place
where I would be seeing
people in my office,
but then still feeling
uncomfortable dealing
with them.
I made a decision that I would
deal with people I wanted
to deal with, who
I knew connected
with me, who I
connected with them,
and that they were nice people.
That sounds an
odd phrase to use,
but I've been messed around and
abused so much over the years
by clients, I made a decision.
All my clients must
be nice people.
I must want to work with them
and feel that connection.
And something else that
really changed my life
was to make the decisions
that all clients
must come to my office no matter
where they were in the country.
They must come to me, so
made lots of standards
around my lifestyle and
who I was as a person,
and it just changed everything.
Quite literally change--
my relationships, obviously
my children, my wife,
they all improved.
They all got better.
I felt better as a person
because I felt real.
I felt this is really
me living my life.
What I've noticed is up
until that point in my life
my standards were
set by the business,
the community, my clients.
Someone said 10 years ago,
the industry, the economy,
set by these different
areas that weren't me.
For the very first
time in my life
I started to stop and go
inside and set standards
for who I really
was as a person,
and that made all
the difference.
So from that point onwards, my
life changed so dramatically.
People began to turn up
and say, what did you do?
Because you were doing this
bad for 18 years, and I
didn't quite.
I was famous for my persistence.
I wouldn't quit.
But how could you be so bad
for so long then suddenly
virtually overnight--
it's not an exaggeration--
overnight things changed?
And they changed overnight
because I changed.
Between those 10 seconds, I
became a different person.
Of course, it took time,
weeks and months and a couple
of years, to see the
results in the business,
but the result was
guaranteed because I changed.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, but why did
it not happen before?
Because we all see
this, and there's
years and years and
years of sometimes
procrastinating and
saying, [INAUDIBLE],
until there is a sudden event.
Or we get fired, or
there is a disease,
or there's something
really dramatic.
So why didn't you hear this
before or had this moment?
What does create such a moment?
I think what the
reality of it is
I'd had plenty of
messages from the universe
to say, stop what you're doing.
This isn't working
for you, and because I
was trapped in what I call
non-self, or in the world,
I ignored them.
I think we all do in life
have times and messages
that we pick up from the
universe, a word, a thought,
a question, [INAUDIBLE],
an incident,
and we do nothing with it.
We don't allow it to
work inside of us,
so we don't get the
change because I look back
and I had plenty of moments.
I tell you one
night I was actually
driving back from a
client's late one night
and I driving my car.
And it was probably about
10:00, 10:30 in the evening,
and all I wanted to do
was just to get home
to see my wife before she went
to bed, maybe look at the kids
before I went to bed.
Because I knew I wouldn't see
them the next morning because
be up before they were up.
So what actually happened
is I'm driving along,
and I'm looking at
the car in front.
And the car in front
is driving so slowly.
I'm thinking, why is he driving
so slowly, I need to get home.
So I put my foot
down to overtake him,
and it's only when I crashed
into the motorway barrier
and bounced back that I realized
I was already in the fast lane.
I was so tired I
didn't know I was
already in the overtaking lane.
And thank God there
wasn't a truck behind.
There wasn't anything
that, otherwise I wouldn't
be literally here today.
But I had lots of little signals
and a lot of big signals,
but I didn't really
pay attention to them.
So what I realized was that
sometimes it just takes
a moment, or a word, or
a thought, or a question,
or a phrase, or an idea
just to get us to pause.
And thank God that
night in November, 2003,
I took that question from
an office security guard.
I call him my first coach.
He doesn't know this
because the office
suit guards change so often,
but he just asked a question.
He was new to the building,
and I just said to him,
now give me some more time.
But when he asked that
question, it just made me stop.
And sometimes to find the
philosophy and the truth that's
inside of us, we've got to just
stop for a moment and pause
and allow the phrase or
the question to sink in
and to see what comes
from that place.
So I don't know if
you want to know what
my life looked like after that?
Yeah.
OK, so--
Right, and there's
a [INAUDIBLE]
OK, yeah, but basically I
don't know how relevant it is
because working as
a financial planner
and just paying your
bills each month
is not very inspirational
for your clients.
It's not good for you.
And your colleagues don't
think very highly of you.
But I can tell you
is within three years
from that being broke and
just paying the bills,
I'm a millionaire.
The following year, I
made a million dollars
in just that year, and I did
it working less than half
the time.
-It's a big change.
Yes, big change because it was
around saying, OK, standards.
It's as if when I set standards
that my truth began to speak
to the world because
what I can tell
you is this is that the company
I worked for didn't change.
The products didn't change.
The presentation, the slides
were pretty much the same.
That didn't change.
About the hotel using
for presentations,
that didn't change either.
What changed was me, and what
I can't yet put into words even
now, but I do fancy
that what was happening,
is when people were meeting
me, they were feeling me
and seeing me differently.
And because they were picking up
on a different energy or aspect
of me unconsciously,
they were going,
I'll do business with him.
I'll connect with this person.
I'll introduce him to so-and-so.
These were essentially the
same people who, for 18 years,
I couldn't get a meeting with
or had a first meeting with.
I didn't get a
second meeting with.
So what essentially
happened is people turned up
in such great numbers
that I had to then ask
other people in the
organization, other agents,
to help me to service
those clients.
Then something else happened.
Because the results
came, you know,
living in the business world,
I had my first waking up, which
had occurred to me that night.
Other agents kept approaching
me and saying, Derek, we
now you're bad.
We know you're not
very good at this job,
but you're suddenly
turning your life
from being really, really
bad to exceptionally good,
one of the top 1%
in the UK and then
one of the top 1% in the world.
How did you do that?
Because I became a member
of the Top of the Table,
which is the highest level of
the Million Dollar Round Table,
which is an organization
that represents
financial planners, financial
advisers, and wealth
managers around the world.
So what was interesting
is that they
kept turning up and saying,
well, what did you do?
And to be frank, when they first
turned up, I started saying,
well, I wasn't myself.
I found my true self.
I accessed all of that, and
I had the guts to be who
I really was into the world.
Some of them got it,
but a lot of them
didn't get in because
they were the left
brain-conscious busy people.
Show me the number.
Show me the process.
But that's where my genius
came back into play because I
believe that every one of us
has a genius inside of a us,
and when we access it,
it gives us the answers.
It shows us the way.
It gives us the ideas.
It even gives us the words.
So I began to say,
OK, what this is
you know you're setting goals.
And you're here because
you're not really that happy
and you're not that
successful according to you.
I said that I stopped
setting goals.
What you need to do
is set standards.
Now to a left brain
business-conscious
person, that looks like,
oh, it's another process
like setting goals.
But in fact, it
wasn't because what
standards are is a thing that
comes from the inside of you.
So they started
setting standards,
reviewing their old standards.
And setting new
standards, and to do
that, they had to go inside.
So it was really
like a miracle to me
to have people coming in looking
for process in the business
model, suddenly go
setting standards,
and so you don't do
get your standards
from the outside world,
that's why you're not happy.
That's why you haven't got
success that you desire.
You take a stance
from the inside
by an internal reference.
And as I did that, the
magic was having people
coming in for a
result on that process
and having them turn around
and go, here's how I feel.
This is really-- I
feel connected here.
And they talk about their
wife and their children
and their husband and
things [INAUDIBLE] feelings
with clients and having
a better connection
and feeling more honest
and more truthful.
And that clearly
was my resonance.
So it was a joy.
It was a revelation to me, sort
of the same thing that worked
for me, having standards
take people inside to access
their true self and to have the
guts to follow the advice that
came from true self.
Because what happens is that
when you access your true self,
the more access it,
the more it speaks to,
the more message it
gives you, the more truth
it reveals to you.
And it does that
through words, thoughts,
questions, phrases, and ideas
that come from within to share.
So what is the
dialogue like, or how do
you formulate those standards?
How do you get in
there to get them out?
Actually, the funny thing
is the very first night,
it was completely accidental.
It was just a question
that called me.
Actually, it's a
question that caused me
almost like a mini meditation.
Because I remember in the
office when I was there,
and I literally just
stopped, and I paused
and feeling really, really
centered and really comfortable
but knowing that
something tremendous
was going on inside of me.
But it was knowing
that my consciousness
was really within.
I was looking deeply
introspectively.
So even though I wouldn't have
called it that then-- I would
have just called
it a moment-- it
was like doing a
deep meditation,
instant meditation going
in for a few seconds
and holding that place.
And as I held that place.
What came up, I paid
attention to it.
So it is about going
inside, allowing the words,
thoughts, question,
phrase to take
you inside like a meditation.
And then to hold that
place, and then just pause
and see what comes up from
the core of you to say,
here's what you should do
and to follow that guidance.
You should really
want to call the book,
the strap line is the
practical guide to releasing
your inner genius
because what I do
know is that every single
person has that inside of them,
but it starts by stopping,
by pausing, and looking
introspectively, and
accepting yourself
in the now, not for tomorrow,
not even for tomorrow morning,
in the now because standards
are now experience.
So as we guided by what's inside
of us, maybe in the early days,
we don't pay attention, but as
we do it more and more often
and practice going inside and
pausing and holding that place,
we get much more guidance
and much more often.
So the first thing to
do is to stop, pause,
look and go introspectively.
So one of the processes
I did with the people
that I started coaching
was to say, well,
where did your old
standards come from?
And most people, of course, go
I didn't know I not standards.
Of course, everybody
does, but they
don't know because
it's not articulated,
at least not in this world.
So what are the
terms that you have,
and where do they
come from, so I
have this process of looking at
seven key areas of your life.
So I was able to, by doing
it on myself for those years,
to refine the key
areas, and everything
affects everything else.
So the seven areas are your
personal health and fitness,
and the money I created to that
called PERFECT, P-E-R-F-E-C-T.
And the P is personal
health and fitness.
E is your environment, which is
your internal environment, how
you think in you
approach inside.
And R is your, sorry,
this, the second part of E,
is your external environment.
It's what you take in
from your environment,
from the news and the radio
and people you associate with,
and the newspapers,
everything that's around
that you allow into your mind.
We know people, both of
us know people, who wake
up in the morning to the radio.
And the radio news
comes on, and it
dumps into their minds
first thing, at the box,
straightaway, dumps in the
war, the death, the tragedy,
the murder, the economy,
straightaway, that's
how they start their day.
It'd be like starting
your day with a cigarette,
and that's not a great way
to start the day, is it?
So that dumps in, so
we need to control
our internal
environment and also
our external, what we allow in.
So that's the E of perfect.
R is relationships, and that's
really simple because we all
know-- all of us of any
age, the people we associate
with in business and in life,
socially and otherwise, affect
our lives.
My father is an immigrant from
Jamaica to England, came when
he was a boy with his parents.
But there's a couple
of rules he gave us.
And just to kind of let you
know that when I was 13,
my mother died.
I'm one of seven, and my mother
died, and my father was left
on his own to bring us all up.
But he had some
really simple rules,
and I'll share two
of them with you.
One of the rules was we
must drop the company.
If he saw us with anyone
even thought might lead us
in the wrong
direction or take us
away from who we really were,
he'd say, drop the bad company.
My father was quite a stern man,
as in you had to listen if he
said, drop the bad company.
Leave that friend alone.
Don't bring them back
to our house again.
We had to listen.
On the other hand, if a friend
came to the house to my father
would, again, treat
them cordially.
And then afterwards,
when they left the house,
I'd wait for the verdict.
And he might just say, Derek,
that boy's got good manners.
You can bring him there again.
You must keep good company.
So he didn't call
it a standard then,
but we both know that the
standard of our relationships
can make us or break us.
So we can start paying
attention again, saying,
who's with us in our life
that serves us and honors us
and that we can honor and we
mutually honor one another.
And we all know the
detractors in our lives,
and if we continue
those associations,
it may take us into
the wrong place for us.
It's not a judgement on them.
It's just about is this
right and honoring us.
So the F is around family.
So you heard some
of the new standards
I set around my family
time, what we would do,
the quality of our life,
and the time together.
And that to me was a core
of my standard review.
Then there was the emotions.
By now, most people here
we are in our 21st century,
we know that most of our
emotions, we do them.
They don't do us.
But the question
is what standards
are we doing each day?
What standards of emotions
are we emoting each day?
Are we letting the world
control our emotions?
Are we choosing them?
Are we staying in
control of them?
So it's one way to drive
you radically near us
or cut us up in the car,
and we get angry and--
[INAUDIBLE]
What are you doing?
You know, a worse side effect.
If that's the case,
we really get angry.
Well, they're
controlling our emotions
where, as a
passenger in the car,
we know that the driver
hasn't got to get angry.
It is a choice, and most of
our emotions, we know by now,
are choices, but we have a
different standard of choosing.
So it's about setting
new standards.
And the good thing
about setting standards
is that, yeah, I'm going
to choose a new standard
of emoting forever.
It's just for today.
Can I do this and hold the
standard from inside myself,
can I hold this standard
just until my head
is back on my pillow tonight?
And I think that we
could all do that.
So then after E, we
have c, which is career,
make a choice
around the standards
that meets clients
as of working.
The power I gave
away from myself.
Tremendous power.
That's the main.
Yeah.
That is the main
thing, especially
when you're self-employed
or entrepreneurial
or starting out.
But even if you're employed, if
you're in an employed position,
you're there for 10, 15 years,
and you're really unhappy.
Whether we like to or
not, we have to accept
that we have set standards.
We rely on someone to do that.
We set the rule because
we said actually I'm
not to be treated
like that or work
in that environment, a
new rule, a new standard,
or we can change straight away.
So standards are a
narrow experience.
So when you look at
the C of perfect,
it's around setting new
standards for your life,
your career, or even your job.
And that leads onto time.
The T is time.
Now for some people
actually, time
could be a new standard of time
keeping, being on time or quiet
literally getting to meeting
early as a new standard
as a rule or a new
quality that they have.
But actually, for me when
I started reviewing around
my time, it was around
my time on Earth,
my time in this physical
sphere because what
I realized was that for 18 years
as an adult, I wasn't happy.
The fact that I was
broke is an issue,
but the fact was I was
unhappy, and I could only
find my happiness by finding my
true self because most people
in the world I believe are
not happy because they're not
who they truly are,
and you just can't
be truly happy if it's not you.
So the biggest revelation
for me was to find me,
and that then led to
questions such as why am I me,
and why am I here as me?
So I began to realize
The who am I.
Exactly, the who am I question
and why am I here question.
And the result of that
is kind of introspection
and constant review.
It was actually some
of my old standards.
Just when they weren't
serving me in the slightest.
I just picked them
up from the employer
of the company, the process,
some friends of mine.
And I picked up all these.
And I realized, but why am
I actually on this planet?
Because that became
the question for me.
Why am I really here?
So the realization
was a little thing
I worked out called
realize squared,
and realize squared
is quite simple.
Realize squared is there
are two realizations,
and one multiplies the other.
The first realization
is a rule here.
Regardless of what we believed
we were before we were born,
or how from the
point of conception
or the point of birth or
some point before that,
I have some beliefs,
but I don't really know.
I don't know what we
go onto afterwards,
but I have some beliefs
about that, but none of us
actually knows.
But here's what I do know,
and I began to realize,
we are here in these physical
bodies on a physical plane,
so why?
So the thing around time is,
OK, setting standards around why
you believe you are hear.
So how'd you do that.
The first realization
is you go inside,
and you keep going
inside, and you
keep looking to realize what's
inside of you, what gifts,
abilities, talents,
potentials, intentions did
you come here with.
What did you come here
with, and keep looking.
That isn't just done for today.
That's done tomorrow and
for the rest of our lives.
Keep looking inside to
realize what's inside of me.
And as I began to do that,
another question came to me.
Well, if that have
stuff is inside
of me, why is it inside of me.
And the response to
that was really simple,
to get it outside of me.
I wouldn't have those
abilities and gifts and talents
that we all have inside if not
to get them outside in love
and in benefits for the world.
So the second
realization became,
OK, whatever is inside of me,
I must realize it in the world.
I make it real, so realize
what's inside of you.
Discover, find out for
the rest of your life.
Realize what's inside, and
then make it real in the world.
Why would it be there
if not to make it real?
So that's where the
realize squared came from.
So my time on the
perfect setting standards
is begin set standards based
on why you think you here
and then to be true
to yourself and set
standards around,
OK, if that's what
you're hear for, act as that.
I hear a little baby in the
background, and I'm thinking--
no, but I'm thinking this
whole experience of growing
up and how we just like--
Indeed we're talking about
rebirth and babies and crying,
and it's funny that
you said that though
because what I realize
is that inside of us,
there is maybe just a baby.
He's definitely
screaming very loud.
He's trying to send
us all a message,
and that's to wake up and spend
some time because funny thing
is when I realize
that by going inside
and you discover your true self,
you have to nurture that just
like you would nurture a baby.
You have to nurture that and
grow and look after and care
and protect it because
that's the real you,
growing and developing
there and crying sometimes
and giggling sometimes.
But that's the real
you that's inside,
and if you had a
baby in your hands,
you'd nurture that wouldn't you.
And that's the real- you grow
as your genius starts serving
you and feeding you and
look after you with words
and inspirations and ideas.
And that changes your life
because when you change,
everything changes for you,
and that's what it's about,
you finding the
change inside of you
and all those things changing.
And often when people speak
about their inner child,
yes, they are there to nurture
that inner child because it
hasn't been really listened to.
All we did is absorb and
get all those publicity
and those advertisers and the
messages and kind of dream
like if it was our
dream, but it's not.
We have each our own
dream and capacity,
and do you think we
all are that unique?
I'm actually convinced
this every single one of us,
every soul on the planet
is not only unique,
but also has that oneness.
Every soul on the planet
is part of everything
as in we're all
connected together.
And I know that is a
common way of thinking
and believing for
those who are awake
or we might say enlightened.
I genuinely believe that
we're all connected together.
What I also believe is
that because of that,
because we're all part of the
same thing-- we're all energy,
and we're all love.
This energy is intelligent,
and its purpose is love.
But I generally believe that we
come into this physical plane
to experience, to
play, to have fun,
to learn, and to
share, and to help
other-- in telling the
souls of the beings
on this physical plane.
So every single
person comes here,
and when we shuffle
off this mortal coil,
we go onto something else.
And whatever that
is, what I know
is that we all have the ability
therefore to be whatever
you want to be in this world.
So we come here with a call
to us, but you put it really,
really well when you
say, the world conspires
to hold us against ourselves.
The adverse, the teaching,
the newspapers, the economy
conspires to have
us not be there.
And we start defending
ourselves because our true self
is with us as a baby.
It's with us as
young child, and do
we notice as we get
to teenage years,
we start defending ourselves?
And the real fall for us all
comes when we stop defending
ourselves, and we give
in, and we become what we
think the world wants us to be.
And that's what I call non-self.
And in non-self, you can't truly
be happy because inside of you,
inside of all of us, we
know there's something else
there that's really true to us.
So I'm guided to help others to
find that place inside of them
and then have the courage
because it's all well and good
saying to someone, find
yourself and be your true self,
but it's difficult isn't
it in the real world when
people saying, well,
to criticize you
and observe what you're doing.
And they would say,
what are you doing?
You might feel
embarrassed or humiliated
or strange or
different or crazy,
but you know, when
this life ends,
all that will mean
nothing at all.
What really will have
mattered did you get
your internal expression out?
You did you get your
true self into the world?
Who'd want to be on their death
bed at 102 and at that point
be saying to themselves,
I didn't quite
get myself into the world.
I didn't quite live my life.
In fact, I'm going
onto who knows
where, knowing that
when I came here with
is still inside of me.
We want to get that thing, our
true self, outside of ourselves
and express that in the world.
So for all of us, and
certainly for me and people
I've worked with and
coached and spoken four,
it became, well,
how do I do this.
So I remember
those-- Steven Jobs.
Yeah, and Steven Jobs
founded Apple and Pixar,
and he did the Stanford
address a few years ago.
And I know that
Stanford address,
I thought it was really
interesting what he said
and also what he didn't
say because as he did this,
he made this address.
And he said, well, let's look
at some of the facts, one
of the world's richest men,
one of the most creative men
in the world, and pretty
much, at that point addressing
the Stanford graduating class,
had the world and the future
of the world-- they
call it the [INAUDIBLE]
and the whys of the world
in his hands, in his grasp.
But let's look at
what he actually did.
What he actually did,
he told three stories
about his life, three stories.
He didn't give a
business process.
He didn't say, follow
this model, XYZ, 1 on 1--
he didn't do any of that.
He gave three
stories of his life,
and then he said-- and I'm
paraphrasing-- and he said,
there's something inside
of you that knows you
better than you know yourself.
It's you heart.
It's your intuition,
and to follow
that heart and intuition.
To learn to drown out the
outer voices, the voice
that would confuse
you, and to pay
attention to the inner voice.
And he also said
that in his life,
listening to the inner voice,
it has never let him down.
He had always been
guided by that.
Now that's all sounds
wonderful and great,
and I can accept that.
What I think the bigger message
is that he said that instead
of a business model for success,
that he said that in terms
of how to be happy and
find out who you are,
that he said that in
terms of a message
to people that are in
their heads, the academics.
He said that was the message.
Find yourself.
It's your story.
This is your path.
Here are my three stories.
Here's my path, and
here's what you can do.
It's your inner self.
So when I picked
upon that, which
was only last November,
because obviously it
was after his death.
It went on YouTube
and fire on YouTube.
I thought, isn't that
interesting because I've
been writing for these
years around help people
find themselves and to
listen to the inner voice
and to be guided by that
and to have the guts
and to have the courage
to be who you really
are because once
you shuffle off,
you can't be who you
are after you've gone.
It's about now and doing it now.
Yeah, Steve Job, whoa.
And but it's been online
for quite some time.
Yes actually, I
hadn't picked up on.
I picked up on that actually
in November of last year
because I had it from every
other friend after his death
obviously, and it went round.
And I just thought, well, apart
from this chap is a genius.
I just thought,
well, that is it.
But the message for
me was about the words
was the words he didn't use.
And I want to have
people actually
appreciate that he didn't say,
here's the business model.
You must have gone
through some [INAUDIBLE]
being from Jamaica,
immigrating in the UK.
Being there and fully because
we know the inheritance,
you know, what you
just bring to come
here into this world with
all this luggage behind you.
I mean, what is your advice in
regards to that because I think
this is a strong example of
overcoming and just being
ourselves fully and owning
who we are in our magnificence
that we can all relate to that
whatever that challenge is.
But I guess, I
mean, that was huge.
Was it there for you?
Or you were actually brought in
this very nurturing, loving way
that you always knew
exactly your place,
or behind the back
of your mind it
was still there, that maybe you
didn't deserve to have this.
I mean, certainly as
a young boy I grew up.
And as young boy, I
loved my mother dearly.
And I was really
close to my mother,
and what was
interesting is that I
always thought that my
parents were immigrants.
But it was tough.
Back in those days, being
black in England was tough.
And even in my business, when I
joined the financial industry,
I kind of new people
that people weren't doing
business with me
for other reasons
other than my business model.
But that could be an
excuse, so my view is this.
Is that-- I'll give you some of
the feeling behind it because
and I work as a
coach, as a writer.
I'm an author, and I speak.
At least, I was speaking
in Indonesia last week
to some agents and wealth
managers from Jakarta and Bali,
and I was blessed in
June to be able to speak
to 7,000 people in Anaheim.
And that's great because
you get the opportunity
to change lives and
give people another way
of looking at things.
People have a philosophy of
goals and what they can do.
But I want to wake up the
philosophy inside of a person,
to have them go internal and
go, OK, where's my genius?
What's the philosophy for me?
So that's what I speak to do.
I was perfectly on
time in that I feel.
Well it is at your own--
there are multiple numbers
of philosophies for
happiness and success
because there are multiple
people on this planet.
But I remember when
I was 13 years old,
and I just ran home
from school one day.
And I kind of ran into the
door like it was half open,
and as I looking
around the house,
there are members of my family
and friends and people there.
And I didn't know
what was going on.
And people weren't speaking,
and it was all quiet,
and it was just after school.
And I knew that,
in a few moments,
my mother would be coming
because she gets home
from work around that time.
So I looked out the window,
and I was waiting for the bus
to come.
And her bus came and went, and
she didn't get off the bus.
So as I'm wondering were
she is and why she's late,
one of the neighbors burst
into the house and shouted,
Mavis is dead.
Mavis is dead, and that was
my mom my mother's pet name.
Her real name is
Kathleen [INAUDIBLE]
Mills, but at 13, that's how
I found out that she died.
And what I can tell
you is that night--
one thing I knew for sure
is I didn't believe it.
I was in denial.
I did not believe
that she was dead,
and I remember going to bed
that night and sitting by my bed
and hugging the bed and
crying and praying that it was
just a dream or some mistake.
When I work up in the
morning, it wasn't a dream.
It was real, and I
knew that she was dead.
But two weeks after the
funeral, I still haven't spoken,
and I found that
I couldn't speak.
So ultimately, it was time for
us all to go back to school.
I'm one of seven children, but
it's time to go back to school,
and we all went back to school.
And as fate would have
it, I sat in the classroom
that first day.
It's one of those days where
the teacher has a reading book,
and everyone has to take a
turn to read from the book,
and it came to my
turn from the book.
And as I looked to the book and
I tried to read, all I could do
was there was, ka--
ka-- and I managed
to blurt out that
I couldn't speak,
and I just buried
my head in my hands.
And what I remember,
even now, was
children laughing
around me, whispers
and mummers going around me.
Me not wanting to be
there because what
I'd realized that my
mother's death had done.
It was such a trauma to
me that it had given me
this amazingly bad
stutter or stammer,
and it meant that
I couldn't speak.
When I spoke, it was awful.
And from that point on, I
spoke with a huge embarrassing
stammer and stutter.
Couldn't get my words
out, couldn't articulate.
And that--
It's hard to believe.
Well, that stayed with me
right through my teenage years.
And you know how cruel children
can be when you have a stutter.
Well, even in college
I had a nickname,
and I was nicknamed
the stuttering parrot.
That was my friends,
so it was a--
Your friends [INAUDIBLE].
Exactly, and actually it
wasn't until my mid-twenties
when things changed because,
and again, I realize now
it was one of those moments.
But I didn't call it a
10-second moment them.
A moment I was in
the office one day,
and again, the universe
collaborating ways we
can't always understand.
And the meaning isn't
always obvious in that time.
Because many times, we have
things happen in our lives,
and we say, well, that means
that, and that means that.
Well, it may not mean that.
The meaning could
be 20 years later,
or the meaning could
not be for you at all.
It could be for another
soul, for another spirit
for somebody else.
So one day I'm in the office,
and the owner of the business
asked me to introduced him to a
bunch of new potential recruits
in the office.
And I said actually, you know,
obviously I can't do this.
You know I can't do this I said.
He said, well,
there's no one around.
Everyone is out seeing
clients and just prospecting.
And you're the only
one in the office.
You need to do this.
So I went into this room
with only about 16 people,
and they're all potential
recruits for the company.
And I actually don't
know what I said.
Even now I don't
What I do know is
that I stammered.
I stuttered.
I sweated, spluttered,
and eventually I
looked for the door, and I said,
Dennis, through the glass door.
And he took my note,
and he came in the room.
And I had to sit there for the
whole hour and a half or so
with humiliation knowing
that everyone in the room
know how badly I performed.
So but that wasn't
the end of it.
I thought that was over.
You know how you've
been to those places
where you're hoping that
there will be an emergency.
You're hoping the
phone will ring
and someone will get
you out of the room,
but there's no emergency.
You have to stay in the room for
the whole of this presentation.
That is the thing.
We always think we're
going to be saved.
Well, great.
Really good.
I like that.
And two weeks later,
I'm in the office.
I'm only a junior at the time.
I'm in the office,
and I get a letter
addressed to me personally.
And the letter was
from a young lady
who had been in that small
group of potential recruits.
And she explained to me.
She said that she didn't
get a job or a position
as a trainee with the company.
And she mentioned she had this
experience and that experience
and that qualification
and she finished
off the letter by
saying, I didn't
get the job Mr. [INAUDIBLE].
I can't understand how I didn't
get the job when someone like
you who can't even
speak properly
and who babbled incoherently
can be in the company,
and I couldn't.
And that was her letter.
And what I know is
that in that moment
in the open planned
office because that
was two weeks later.
Bizarre, as it may sound, I kind
of new in that moment, everyone
could read my mind.
[INAUDIBLE] I can't read this
letter again because if I do,
they'll all pick up
on my humiliation.
So I screwed the letter up,
and I threw it in a basked
beneath my desk.
And the thing is, regardless
of her intention for writing
that letter, she was right.
I knew that I couldn't
speak properly,
so I made a commitment that
day to learn to speak again
for a second time,
to learn to speak
properly for a second time.
So I did that.
Went on speaking courses.
Went on Dale Carnegie
course over 14 weeks.
And starting off, let's just say
stuttering, stuttering starts,
and by end of that
14-week program,
I had emerged as the person
with the most improvement.
I didn't become a speaker.
That was when I was 25.
I didn't become a speaker
until two years ago,
as in professional speaker
because when I changed my life
around, so many people
kept turning up and saying,
what do you do?
Share with us?
Talk to me about standards.
I've had goals.
I'm still not happy.
And ultimately, I had
a second awakening.
So that question
by a security guard
was really just the first
awa-- I woke up and found who
I really was that took
me out of my unhappiness
in a financial position.
The second awakening came
in 2010 where I realized
this isn't just for me.
These people have been turning
up over the last few years.
It's not just me.
It's me to share what came out
to my true self with the world,
so I am, at that point,
in the June, 2010, went
along to a small chapter of
the professional speaking
association.
It was a 10-minute
showcase to share
my philosophy of
standards and set of goals
and share my story.
And they gave me such
an amazing welcome,
and it was humbling, the
response that they gave me.
And I really felt,
yeah, I'm doing this.
But I'm the kind of
person where kind of I
still wanted to
test it some more.
And I'm not saying I had
a massive external frame
of reference, but I did want
to test and see whether, are
they just being kind.
They're lovely people.
Are they just being nice?
And so I then applied to
speak at the global speaker
summit, which was last April.
And I said, actually,
no, you can't
speak at that because it's
being booked for a year ahead.
Also, because it's booked.
But something inside me
just said, check again.
So I checked again last
January, no response.
Checked again last February with
an email, and I emailed saying,
could I speak.
Has anybody dropped out.
An email came back
within minutes saying,
someone just dropped out.
What would you like
to speak about.
Long story short, I ended up
speaking at the global speaker
summit last April
in front of a room
full of international
speakers and coaches whatever,
and they gave me
such an innovation
at the end that I knew
I had got something
because it's a
different message,
a different philosophy.
And the universe was really
collaborating because
in the same room there
with someone who knew
a film producer in Las Vegas.
And they introduce me
to this film producer
the following week
who then asked
me to do after the the
conversation on the phone,
said she loved my ideas, loved
the philosophy of standards
instead of goals, the story
and all the rest of it
and what I was
doing in the world.
So what she asked me to do was
to have a cameo in her film.
And film is called "The
Keeper of the Keys."
Now what's interesting about
"The Keeper of the Keys"
is that it starts Jack Canfield,
Dr. John Gray-- he did "Men are
from Mars, Women are from
Venus" and Marcy [INAUDIBLE].
"I'm Happy for No Reason."
And said to me, they would
love you in that film.
So I got a three minute
cameo, and by the way,
my global speaker summit
talk was my fifth talk.
And so on my fifth
talk ever in public
around my philosophy
in life, I'd been
asked to star in this film.
The film came out this
year produced by Robin Jay.
And so I've got a copy
for you of the DVD.
So what I'm saying is when
we follow our true self path,
then things happen for us which
you might in another arena
called serendipity
or coincidence.
But my life since my openness
of my true self, the most
incredible things and
people have happened to me
to such a regular degree that
I forgot-- I said to myself,
this isn't serendipity.
This is not coincidence.
This is nothing of the sort.
This is how life should be.
So the question becomes what are
we doing not to be in the place
where life is like this for us.
Does that make sense?
So we're really saying, well,
what I realized was actually
meeting the right people,
being asked to do these things,
being contacted by a
bureau in Europe that
represents Tony Robbins and
then being on the same agency
as him.
That came out of
the same meeting,
and those are the things which
we haven't got time for today.
And also [INAUDIBLE].
Oh, well, yeah, it
didn't come up to that
because there's lots probably.
It's a limited time, but the
thing I'm trying to share today
is that the silly
genius that I put
on the book, a practical guide
to releasing your inner genius.
We've all got that inner genius.
I know we have.
We've all got it, and
it's about my inner genius
helping other people to get
there's out into the world.
And regardless of their
background, and what
we thought of ourselves.
None of that.
I mean, if that was
relevant, I mean,
there are some
areas that I don't
know as in why
one spirit is born
in poverty in Asia or Africa.
Another is born
into royal family
or another is born as
you, another born as me,
I don't know.
And for me, it's around,
we can all have excuses.
And I could say,
well, I'm black.
Growing up in
England, hard time,
trying to do business in England
and to be a financial services
agent and financial planner
when you're market is all white
and you're black, difficult.
That could be an excuse.
I'm from a poor
background, very poor.
My father worked in a factory.
When my mother
died, seven of us.
He looked after us.
I could that as an excuse.
I didn't have a silver
spoon in my mouth.
Does that translate, yeah?
Didn't have a silver spoon.
Lots of reasons.
I had a stutter.
I could have been somewhere
completely different.
But the thing is, they don't
count for anything if you get
through a life of either 20
years or 30 years of 97 years
or 102 years if you don't
get what's inside of you
outside of you.
The excuses count for naught.
It's about who you are.
So being Jamaican
and stuttering,
and [INAUDIBLE] mother.
That could be a reason
not to find myself.
If you wanted the reasons not to
find yourself, there are a few.
But for me, it became, OK, and
having that quiet desperation
of financial, well,
almost been broke
and being almost depressed.
And knowing I'm
ruining my relationship
my closest loved ones.
That can all be excuses.
The bottom line is, they
don't count for anything.
What counts is who are you?
What's really inside
of you, and what
are you doing to get what's
inside of you, outside of you.
If you really want
to be happy, it's
about finding your true self.
And what comes out that
as in we all will find
is what comes out of that is
joy and happiness and light.
And the more we share our
light, the more people
the people can light up.
Because one thing I was
[INAUDIBLE] last week when
I was in Bali, and I
talked about my problems
that I had, black and
mother dying and stutter.
And I said, and the phrase
that she used then was it
must have been
really, really dark.
And yes, at times it was
really, really, really dark
and not a lot nice
life to be living in.
But then I got to thinking after
having the meeting with her,
and it was out of
respect for her company.
And I realized that
even in the darkest
darkness, if you
turn on the light,
everyone turns
towards the light.
And that's what they do.
Even the smallest
light when it's dark,
everyone turns
towards the light.
So we have almost
a responsibility
to let our lights
out in the world.
Whatever is inside of
us to get the light out.
Get the light out.
Share your light,
small or large.
Find out what light
you've got inside of you
and share it with the world.
And others who are
in darkness, they'll
be able to see it their way and
see what's, and the other thing
that comes out of that is
that if you have a light,
people around you
will allow themselves
to put their lights on because
they can see with your light.
And as you shine, it's as if
you shine and gives permission
to them to also shine.
So it's more than just for me.
It's more than just for
you or us as individuals.
It's around looking around
the world and saying,
it is rule one, all oneness.
And for all oneness, and we're
seeing someone in darkness.
One of the best way of getting
someone else out of darkness
is to put on our own light.
Turn our own light on,
and then as we go around,
share the light.
And then who knows where
their light ends up.
You know, what was
interesting for me
as a realization a few years
ago is if I have a candle,
and if I take a candle
here and I light it,
and I've got some light.
But if you have a candle,
and yours isn't lit,
I can pass some light to you.
It doesn't diminish
me whatsoever.
My light stays the same,
but you now have your light,
and we both have two
lights in the room.
And if the room is
full of other people,
then we can all share
light with each other.
And we all benefit from
all the light in the room,
so sharing the light, even
from the most basic level,
benefits us as well as the room.
And every person we share the
light with because my light
still shines, and I
can give you light.
So for me, part of
that realization,
and if by discovery
of true self,
is to say what light have I got?
I don't know what light is
going to shed for the people,
but get it out there,
and share the light.
And who knows one
day what you put out
comes back to you when
you're in a dark place.
But even if that
didn't happen, you've
put light out into
the world, and that's
what I think is part of
what we're all-- what I
believe that we're here to do.
Beautiful, well thank
you so much, Derek,
for this really
delicious moment.
I'm so excited to get
this out and to be
able to share your wisdom.
And more than your
wisdom, your spirit
really because your spirit
comes out, and it's such a gift.
Thank you so much.
I really enjoyed this.
I mean, I want to thank you.
And also because I'm here,
I wanted to thank you,
and also I've got a chance
now to get the philosophy out
because of one introduction
to [INAUDIBLE],
and [INAUDIBLE] have
been supporting me
all the way through saying
you've got something to share
here and has supported me
by having the book published
all over the world, in
America, UK, US, India, Africa,
Australia, and New Zealand.
And the way I see that is
as a light going out there,
and I want to thank [INAUDIBLE]
for a first-time author.
And for them to see some
Another baby.
Well, exactly.
Yeah, and they've nurtured me.
That's well put.
They've nurtured me in
helping [INAUDIBLE] you've
got something.
And, god willing, I'll get the
opportunities to write more
and to share more through
speaking and through mentoring
and through programs
and writing and get
more light out into the world.
Because if I can just get light
into another person's life
which gives them light
to see their way,
and they can pass the
light on, my job's done.
Beautiful.
My goodness.
Oh, we want to get
more of you, and I'm
sure we'll hear a lot more
of you, so thank you so much.
Much, much love my
delicious co-creators
wherever you are in the world.
Big kiss, bye.